sub-page describing SDFormat model control plugin import (#2538)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/interactivity/robotics/importing-robot/sdformat-plugins.md

---
linkTitle: SDFormat plugins
title: SDFormat plugins
description: Detailed description of support of SDFormat plugins in Robot Importer.
weight: 100
---

## Introduction

Robots described in either [SDFormat](http://sdformat.org/), [URDF](http://wiki.ros.org/urdf), or [XACRO](http://wiki.ros.org/xacro) format, can be imported into your O3DE simulation project using the Robot Importer. The tool creates O3DE entities and components that model a robot. You can find more details about Robot Importer in the [documentation](/docs/user-guide/interactivity/robotics/importing-robot/). 

> SDFormat standard allows the extension of the functionality of the imported robot by adding _plugins_ to the description. The same description can be incorporated into URDF and XACRO files using `<gazebo>` tag. Technically, such a plugin is a dynamically loaded chunk of code that can extend _world_, _model_, or _sensor_ description. Currently, only _models'_ and _sensors'_ _plugins_ are supported. Please refer to [SDformat sensors page](./sdformat-sensors.md) to learn more about sensors' _plugins_. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SDFormat standard allows the extension of the functionality of the imported robot by adding _plugins_ to the description. The same description can be incorporated into URDF and XACRO files using `<gazebo>` tag. Technically, such a plugin is a dynamically loaded chunk of code that can extend _world_, _model_, or _sensor_ description. Currently, only _models_, _sensors_ and _plugins_ are supported. Please refer to [SDformat sensors page](./sdformat-sensors.md) to learn more about _sensors_ and _plugins_. 
```
